---
title: Behind Gumroad’s New Design System
description: The story of our site-wide redesign and web tech and accessibility wins.
date: '2023-05-06'
categories:
  - python
  - golang
  - code
published: true
layout: blog
---

## Behind Gumroad’s New Design System

The story of our site-wide redesign and web tech and accessibility wins.


For Black Friday 2021, we wanted to release a site-wide rebrand to replace our previous, ten-year-old design with something much more modern. Our goals were for it to not only be exciting and new from a visual perspective, but to also make use of progress in web tech and accessibility.

On Black Friday, we successfully released our newly created design system, and since then we’ve incrementally migrated the rest of our website to use it. This has resulted in noticeable improvements to file size and accessibility across the board.


## Why now?


Gumroad is over ten years old.

Every decision we’ve made since then has been based on a set of assumptions that our CEO, Sahil, made back then.But assumptions and reality drift apart over time. This is not a phenomenon specific to Gumroad; ideas and requirements change as our culture and technology does. Software engineering moves quickly, and there are new things to learn every day.

Our approach for the last ten years has been simple: What’s the best use of our time, what’s the most efficient change we can make, to improve the lives of our creators? As an engineer, I always consider efficiency. When implementing a larger change I first ask myself whether it would be less expensive to change the existing implementation, or whether a larger, more fundamental refactor (read: writing it from scratch) would save time and effort in the long run. This is more art than science; often, both are valid options, and the only thing helping me decide is my experience.

But with Gumroad’s design system, the choice was clear.

After ten years of CSS written to solve the problem of their day, we started 2021 with 140 CSS files totaling over 30,000 lines of code. And while Gumroad is certainly complex, it’s not “30,000 lines of CSS” complex. Our stylesheets had become inflated by their lack of real structure, multiple implementations of the same patterns and components, and no consistent usage of variables or design patterns.

With all this in mind, and with the exciting task at hand being a complete visual overhaul, we decided to replace all of the existing CSS with a completely new set of stylesheets, considering all of the new requirements, standards, and browser capabilities of 2021.


## Replacing the Engine Mid-flight


We began by defining a basic look and feel in terms of color schemes, fonts and sizes, and borders. These would see some changes during the later stages, but having that system in place from the beginning and building upon it was crucial. We then went through each page individually, and created a component system that was extensive and flexible enough to cover all the functionality and states we were going to need, and that made sense from both a visual and technical perspective. We then codified these components in Figma, making sure to cover all possible states and interactions, and creating a universal truth for what Gumroad should look like.

Eventually, our design system reached a sufficient level of maturity to begin implementing it in code. To do so, I used Storybook.js to create interactive demonstrations of each of these components including all of their states. This has since grown into a component gallery of about 40 components, providing a full overview of all available building blocks to both designers and developers.

Once most of these components had been implemented, we began the work of updating Gumroad’s existing pages to use them. We knew that despite the planning and consideration we had already put in, there were going to be a lot more changes to the component system during this period. All of the work we do at Gumroad is iterative; we start with something that works, and then continue working on it to make it the best it can be. We continued improving the design system as we applied it to our pages as we saw what didn’t fit and what was missing, noticed edge cases we needed to support, and found compatibility issues to respect.

It was obvious from the beginning that this project was going to be too big for our usual process of working not in teams, but as individuals on tasks that we work on autonomously from feature design to completion. This workload was going to be too large for one person to work on, and we quickly realized that getting it done in time (we wanted to have it ready for you in time for Black Friday, after all!) was going to require collaboration across all of our engineers.

